hi this is pressure Walker and today
we're going to present the four Knights
puzzle the setup is a three by three
grid and Knights are placed on the four
corners they move according to the
normal chess rules which is you can move
two spots over and one up or two spots
up and one over the goal in this puzzle
is only by using legal chess moves can
you get the question is can you get the
Knights in the opposite corners to swap
positions so the thing you should give
this a try
it will be very could be frustrating at
first because as you move the knight
you're gonna realize it's going to
occupy a square that you want to move
the other night into so you're
constantly gonna have to keep going back
and forth and the question is can you
get the Knights to X Y positions and if
so what is the minimum number of moves
you should definitely give this a try
once you're ready you can continue
watching the video and listen to the
solution so the reason this puzzles
interesting is you can get a very
interesting solution using graph theory
and we're gonna start off with a very
simple technique what we're going to do
is we're going to draw a line between
two squares if a knight can move from
one school between those two squares so
the knight on a one can definitely move
to c2 but it could also move to b3 and
from those positions it can move two
different squares and we're just going
to draw lines and connect them
once we get to this final move right
here we've actually completed a circuit
and we can't create any more unique
arrows everything has already been done
before and this is going to help us
solve the puzzle so what we do is we're
gonna abstract once more and make the
board disappear and we will label the
endpoints of the graph with the
corresponding squares that they
they represent and we'll also just move
the Knights over to the spots so how is
this going this graph going to get us to
the solution well it looks like a
complicated graph with a lot of lines
overlapping intersecting so we're just
going to rearrange this graph and unfold
it I just think about it like game of
cat's cradle so we start out with this
point c2 over here we're just gonna move
it over and keep keeping the same links
connected so as all we've done is we've
sort of pulled out the c2 and we're
gonna keep doing this now we're gonna
take this a3 over here and we're going
to pull it out and we keep doing this
will will pull out b1 will move over a2
and then B 3 and C 1 so this is exactly
the same graph that we had before that
star shaped graph is just we've
rearranged it to make a circuit and
finally what we can do is all the
lengths between the different squares
are the same so we'll just renormalize
this and draw it to an octagon so now
this is exactly the same graph we've but
it's a much simpler representation we
have the four Knights we have the spots
that they can move to and this will get
us to solve the puzzle the only way that
we can get the knight on a 1 + c3 to
swap positions and c1 + a3 to swap
positions is we're gonna have to rotate
this graph either clockwise or
counterclockwise for spaces this means
that each night is gonna have to move
over four spaces and this puzzle can be
solved and it can be solved in a minimum
of 16 moves so that's the elegant answer
I hope you enjoyed this puzzle and you
she'll subscribe to me so because I do
math and game theory videos you can also
read more about my stuff on my blog mind
your decisions or on Twitter at pressure
Walker and get my ebooks at Amazon